# SQL-Presidential-Database
ReadMe
Introduction
	The President of the United States; the most powerful individual on the earth. Out of a Nation of 330 Million People we have One Person who is elected to represent the Country and Serve as President. The United States President has an incredible amount of power and influence on not only the country but also the World. Only 45 Gentlemen have served as the President since the year 1789. The first President was George Washington while the current President is Donald Trump. These 45 men have shaped the history of our country and have lead us through some dark and harrowing times. 
	I love politics. I read the news every single day and follow politics avidly. I pay attention to current political and economic events of the United States as well as the world. Out of all political topics The United States Presidents has to be the one that interests me the most. I find it fascinating that one individual can be delegated that much power and influence. When I wanted to create a database I had no hesitation about doing one which was political. 
	My intention for this project was simple; I wanted to create a detailed and unbiased database about the United States Presidents. My goal was to provide fact- not fiction. I was not to include any personal bias or commentary. My goal was to present the facts as they appear. I was not rooting for any one president or any one party. I wanted this to include only facts and data. This would allow the project to be better. 
	I included only 13 out of 45 Presidents in my SQL Database. Why is that? The answer is simple. So many different metrics and figures didn’t start getting recorded until relevantly recent (Around Truman’s Time). This includes various metrics such as GDP, Unemployment, Approval Ratings, and Job Creation. For that reason I chose to only include the last 13 Presidents. I felt that this would make the database detailed, concise, and comprehensive. 
	There is so much information out there on the Presidents. Because of this, I decided to split my database up into three tables. The first one is all about the Presidents. I included a lot of information such as their full name, age, party, Vice-President, Home State, and more. The second table was the Presidency table- this is where I included information about their time in office. This included information about Unemployment Rates, GDP Rates, Supreme Court Appointments, Job Creation, Approval Ratings, and more. The final table which I included was all about the campaign and election. It included information such as Electoral Vote, Popular Vote, Voter Turnout, and more. 
	The first step was figuring out which data I wanted to use. There is a massive amount of data to choose from- I wanted to choose only data which would allow for a cohesive database. I considered many different qualifiers such as Pardons, Legislation, and First Lady Initiatives but ended up decided not to include them. I chose data which was comprehensive and detailed which would allow me to write some great queries. Once again, my goal for this project was to create a Non-Partisan and unbiased Database. 
Findings
	Age is a very important thing to many people when choosing a candidate. All of the 2020 Democratic Frontrunners are 70 Years Old or above (Donald Trump- 73, Joe Biden- 76, Elizabeth Warren- 70, and Bernie Sanders- 78). I felt that it is important to include age in my database. All of the 3 oldest Presidents were Republican (Donald Trump, Ronald Reagan, and George H.W. Bush) while the 3 youngest presidents were Democrats (John F. Kennedy, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama). The average age for a Republican was 63 while the average age for a Democrat was 51. Many of these individuals were qualified to hold the office. Out of the 13 Presidents 5 had served as Vice-President before (H.W. Bush, Nixon, Ford, Johnson, Truman). Finally, I was curious to see if Governors or Senator get higher approval ratings. Many people feel that being a governor better prepares a candidate due to it being an executive not legislative position. I found that Senators tend to have slightly higher approval ratings than Governors. The average gubernatorial approval rating is 51% while the average senatorial approval rating is 53%. 
	I had a lot of information in my Presidency Table. Executive Orders are actions taken by a sitting president in order to bypass Congress. The three Presidents with the most executive orders are Harry Truman (907), Dwight Eisenhower (484), and Ronald Reagan (381). Judicial Appointments are one of the most influential parts of a President’s legacy. Appointing someone to the highest court in the land means that their decisions affect Americans for decades. I found that the average Republican President gets 3 (2.86) Supreme Court Appointments while the average Democrat gets 2 Supreme Court Appointments. 
	Economic data was one of the most important factors in this database; I gathered data on a variety of different metrics. One of the most common questions asked by people is “Which Party presides over a better economy?” I looked at three entirely different economic metrics (average GDP rate, average unemployment rate, and average job growth). I found that in all cases Democratic Presidents edge out Republican Presidents. The average GDP Rate for Democratic Presidents is 3.3% while the average for Republicans is 2.74%. The average unemployment rate for Democrats is 5.58% while the average for Republicans is 5.84%. Finally, the average job creation percentage for Democrats is 10.33% while the average for Republicans is 7.23%. I’m not saying that either party is superior to the other- all that I’m saying is that Democratic Presidents tend to preside over strong and more robust economies. 
	I also looked at which Presidents performed best with various aspects of the economy. GDP Rate is the rate at which the Growth Domestic Product of a country changes. 3% and above is considered an economy to be moving at a great pace. Interestingly enough the three presidents with the highest GDP Rate were all Democrats. They were Lyndon B. Johnson (5.3%), John F. Kennedy (4.3%), and Bill Clinton (3.9%). I also looked at the average unemployment rate during presidencies. The unemployment rate should be low but should never be too low. The goal is to have as many people working as possible while those who aren’t working are easily able to obtain a job. The presidents with the lowest average unemployment rates are Donald Trump (4.1%), Harry Truman (4.2%), and Lyndon B. Johnson (4.2%) while those with the highest average unemployment rates are Gerald Ford (7.8%), Ronald Reagan (7.5%), and Barack Obama (7.4%). Another very important metric is looking at job growth percentage. The Presidents who added the most jobs were Ronald Reagan (16.5%), Bill Clinton (15.6%), and Harry Truman (13%). 
	Approval Ratings were also a very important part of my database. I looked at approval ratings from Gallup Polling. Gallup is a non-partisan pollster which is incredibly reputable. I looked at highs, lows, and the average. 
	I wanted to find out if Democrats or Republicans have higher approval ratings. For this metric I looked at the average approval rating. I found that the average Republican approval rating is 52% while the average Democrat’s is 53% (53.167%). I also looked at individual presidents. I found that the three presidents with the highest average approval rating are John F. Kennedy (D-70%), Dwight Eisenhower (R-65%), and George H.W. Bush (R-61%). Interestingly enough, two of these Presidents are Republican while only one is a Democrat. I also looked at highs, lows, and ranges. I found that the Presidents with the highest highs were George W. Bush (R- 90%), George H.W. Bush (R- 89%), and Harry Truman (D-87%) while the Presidents with the lowest lows were Harry Truman (D-22%), Richard Nixon (R-24%), and George W. Bush (R-25%). Ranges were also an incredibly important factor that I looked at. I found that the President with the lowest range is Donald Trump (R-11%) while the President with the highest range is George W. Bush (R) with a massive 65% range! 
	Elections was the final table which I included in my database. I had a variety of information such as voter turnout, popular vote, electoral votes, and more. First I wanted to see which Presidents got the highest voter turnout and which party receives higher voter turnout. Dwight Eisenhower had the highest Voter Turnout (63.3%) in the 1952 election. The average voter turnout when a Republican wins is 56% (55.9%) while the average voter turnout for a winning Democrat is 56.1% (56.06%). This is incredibly close. I also looked at which President received the most electoral votes and which party receives more Electoral Votes. Ronald Reagan received the most Electoral Votes (525) in the 1984 election. Republicans, on average, receive more Electoral Votes than Democrats. Republicans typically receive 402 (402.1) Electoral Votes while Democrats receive 354 Electoral Votes (354.375). I was surprised at how big the difference was. When looking at the table it is because Republicans often have massive blowouts (Reagan, Nixon, Eisenhower). The final election metric that I looked at is popular vote. Lyndon B. Johnson is the president with the highest Popular Vote Percentage. He garnered 61.1% of the popular vote in the 1964 Election. Republicans, on average, get more of the popular vote than Democrats. The average Republican Popular Vote Percentage is 52% (52.43%) while the average Democratic Percentage is 51% (50.84). Interestingly enough, the two Presidents who lost the popular vote but won the electoral vote were both Republicans. They are Donald Trump and George W. Bush. 
Conclusion
	I really enjoyed doing this project. I feel that I deepened my knowledge of American history and politics and also got better at SQL. I felt that I enhanced my understanding of databases as well as got better at writing queries for them. I definitely want to continue to learn more about the Presidents as well as continue my journey with using SQL. 
Acknowledgements
	I would like to thank Professor Duffy for her continued guidance, dedication, and assistance with helping me on this project. Her advice and support was incredibly helpful. 
Works Cited
	I used many different resources for this project. Here they are:
https://millercenter.org/president
https://www.whitehouse.gov/about-the-white-house/first-ladies/
https://www.britannica.com/topic/United-States-Presidential-Election-Results-1788863
https://news.gallup.com/interactives/185273/presidential-job-approval-center.aspx
https://ballotpedia.org/Federal_judicial_appointments_by_president
https://www.thebalance.com/job-creation-by-president-by-number-and-percent-3863218
https://historyinpieces.com/research/us-unemployment-rates-president
https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/lns14000000
https://www.hudson.org/research/12714-economic-growth-by-president
https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/statistics/data/executive-orders
https://www.thoughtco.com/president-during-each-major-war-105471
